chore: wip getting started (#7)
kubeshop/testkube-docs: docs/articles/tutorial/2-quickstart.mdx

- [Helm](https://helm.sh/)

```sh
wget -qO - https://repo.testkube.io/key.pub | sudo apt-key add -
echo "deb https://repo.testkube.io/linux linux main" | sudo tee -a /etc/apt/sources.list
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install -y testkube
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="script" label="Script">

To install Testkube CLI you'll need the following tools:

- [Kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/), Kubernetes command-line tool
- [Helm](https://helm.sh/)

```bash
curl -sSLf https://get.testkube.io | sh
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="manual" label="Manual Download">

To install Testkube CLI you\'ll need the following tools:

- [Kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/), Kubernetes command-line tool
- [Helm](https://helm.sh/)

1. Download the binary for the version and platform of your choice [here](https://github.com/kubeshop/testkube/releases).
2. Unpack it. For example, in Linux use `tar -zxvf testkube_1.5.1_Linux_x86_64.tar.gz`.
3. Move it to a location in the PATH. For example:

```sh
mv  testkube_1.5.1_Linux_x86_64/kubectl-testkube /usr/local/bin/kubectl-testkube
```

For Windows, you will need to unpack the binary and add it to the `%PATH%` as well.

:::note

> If you use a package manager that we don\'t support, please let us know here [#161](https://github.com/kubeshop/testkube/issues/161).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you use a package manager that we don't support, please let us know here [#161](https://github.com/kubeshop/testkube/issues/161).
```

:::

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## 2. Installing Testkube

> Testkube has flexible in its deployments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Testkube has flexibility in its deployments.
```

The Testkube agents are our test runners and always run in your cluster.

> Your source code will thus never hit our servers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because of this, your source code will never hit our servers.
```

Whether the control plane is self-hosted or managed by Testkube Cloud is up to you.

<Tabs groupId="tutorial-install-cli">
<TabItem value="on-prem" label="On-Prem" default>

1. Request a free license on https://testkube.io/download.
2. Run the `testkube init demo` command in your terminal.
3. Run the `testkube dashboard` command to open Testkube without configuring ingress.
4. Log in to Testkube with the credentials from the second step.

You will now see the dashboard:

![The dashboard](./img/dashboard.png)

:::info

> Need more details or customization? You can learn more in [our installating documentation][testkube-installing].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Need more details or customization? You can learn more in [our installation documentation][testkube-installing].
```

:::

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="cloud" label="Cloud">

> 1. Login to [app.testkube.io](https://app.testkube.io)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Login to [app.testkube.io](https://app.testkube.io).
```

> 2. Click on the `Let's get started` button

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Click on the `Let's get started` button.
```

3. Enter an environment name and click `Create environment`.
4. Run the generated `testkube pro init` command in your terminal.

You will now see the dashboard:

![The dashboard](./img/dashboard.png)

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="demo" label="Demo without Install">

1. Login to Testkube.
2. Click the `Get access to a demo environment` button.

You will now see the dashboard without having to install an agent.

![The dashboard](./img/dashboard.png)

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

> ## 3. Defining your first test workflow

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 3. Defining your First Test Workflow
```

Let's take a look at a K6 load test to familiarize ourselves with Testkube's workflows:

```yaml

> # The workflow is a Kubernetes CRD with the usual apiVersion, kind and metadata

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# The workflow is a Kubernetes CRD with the usual apiVersion, kind and metadata.
```

# It configures the steps for your test automation pipeline.
apiVersion: testworkflows.testkube.io/v1
kind: TestWorkflow
metadata:

>   # The workflow will have a name that you define here

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  # The workflow will have a name that you define here.
```

  name: my-test

>   # By default, workflows should be applied to the namespace of the Testkube agent

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  # By default, workflows should be applied to the namespace of the Testkube agent.
```

  namespace: testkube

>   # Labels allow you to filter and group within the dashboard and CLI

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  # Labels allow you to filter and group within the dashboard and CLI.
```

  labels:
    app.kubernetes.io/name: my-api
    app.kubernetes.io/part-of: my-cms
    testkube.io/test-tool: k6s
    testkube.io/test-category: load-test
spec:
  # The content property allows you to fetch your test cases and source code.

>   # You can check out content from git or create specific files from strings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  # You can check out content from Git or create specific files from strings.
```

              http_req_failed: ["rate<0.01"],
            },
          };
          export default function () {
            http.get("http://test.k6.io");
          }
          export function handleSummary(data) {
            return {
              stdout: textSummary(data, { indent: " ", enableColors: true }),
              "junit.xml": jUnit(data),
            };
          }
  container:
    workingDir: /data
  # Steps are the main building blocks in workflows. Each step is executed in sequential order.
  # All steps share the file system and can run a specific images.
  steps:
    # Each step can have its own image and shares the file system. You can use steps
    # to setup or teardown your testing tool and any test dependencies.
    - name: Run k6 tests
      run:
        image: grafana/k6:latest
        shell: k6 run k6.js --iterations 100
    # Logs of steps are automatically stored whereas artifacts will require an explicit step.
    # You can give us the location of the artifacts and Testkube takes care of the rest.
    - name: Saving artifacts
      artifacts:
        paths: ["junit.xml"]
```

While this only scratches the surface of workflows,

> we can already go ahead and try to run this workflow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
we can now attempt to run this workflow.
```

You can learn more about workflows in the next steps.

> ## 4. Run your test workflow

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 4. Run your Test Workflow
```

<Tabs groupId="tutorial-cli">

<TabItem value="dashboard" label="Using the Dashboard">

1. Choose import from YAML.
2. Copy and paste the test workflow above.
3. Click the `Create` button.
4. View the status and logs of the workflow as it is executing.

:::info
Alternatively, you can use the test workflow wizard to create your own test workflow from scratch leveraging test workflow templates for a variety of tools such as Postman, Artillery, Cypress, Playwright and more.
:::

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="cli" label="Using the CLI">

> 2. Create a file named _my-workflow.yaml_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create a file named _my-workflow.yaml_.
```

> 1. Copy and paste the test workflow above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Copy and paste the test workflow above.
```

> 1. Execute the command below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Execute the command below.
```

> 1. View the status and logs of the workflow as it is executing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. View the status and logs of the workflow as it is executing.
```

```bash
kubectl apply -f my-workflow.yaml && kubectl testkube run tw my-test --watch
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## 5. Looking at past executions

<Tabs groupId="tutorial-cli">
<TabItem value="dashboard" label="Using the dashboard" default>

> 1. Go to the dashboard and open your recent execution

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Go to the dashboard and open your recent execution.
```

> 2. You can see this execution's logs right away

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. You can see this execution's logs right away.
```

> 3. You can see this execution's artifacts by going to the `Artifacts` tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. View the execution's artifacts by going to the `Artifacts` tab.
```

4. Click the download icon to download it.

![A past execution](./img/past-execution.png)

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="cli" label="Using the CLI">

```bash

> # List recent executions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# List recent executions.
```

kubectl testkube get twe

> # List artifacts of this execution

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# List artifacts of this execution.
```

kubectl testkube get artifacts 664dbae9924211bb076bd58e

> # Download the artifact of this execution

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Download the artifact of this execution.
```

kubectl testkube download artifact 6655cc6d7d0abf889e531168 junit.xml .

> # Download the logs of this execution (not yet implemented))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Download the logs of this execution (not yet implemented).
```

kubectl testkube get twe 664dbae9924211bb076bd58e --logs-only

> # Browse this execution in the dashboard (not yet implemented)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Browse this execution in the dashboard (not yet implemented).
```

kubectl testkube get twe 664dbae9924211bb076bd58e --browse
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

> ## 6. Integrate within your pipeline

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 6. Integrate within your Pipeline
```

Tests can be integrated in your CI workflow, run on a cron schedule or trigger on a Kubernetes event.
For example, I want to run this test every time my deployment's image updates.

<Tabs groupId="tutorial-integrate">
<TabItem value="kubernetes" label="Trigger on a Kubernetes event">

> 1. Browse to your triggers within the left sidebar

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Use the sidebar on the left to browse to your triggers.
```

2. Click the `Create a new trigger` button.
3. Follow the instructions on the form.

![create-trigger](./img/create-trigger.png)

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="ci" label="Trigger in CI">

> 1. Browse to your test workflow within the dashboard

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Browse to your test workflow within the dashboard.
```

> 2. Click `CI/CD Integrations` tab

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Click the `CI/CD Integrations` tab.
```

3. You can see the instructions where all variables have been prefilled for you.
4. Follow these instructions to run it on your favourite provider.

Testkube currently comes with instructions for GitHub Actions, GitLab CI, CircleCI, Jenkins and Azure DevOps.

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="cron" label="Trigger on a schedule">

1. Browse to your test workflow
2. Click "Edit Workflow" in the dotted menu top-right.
3. Make the following changes and save the workflow:

```diff
apiVersion: testworkflows.testkube.io/v1
kind: TestWorkflow
metadata: …
spec:
+  events:
+  - cronjob:
+      crob: '*/5 * * * *'
  content: …
  steps: …
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Next steps

Congratulations on running your first test workflow!
At this point you should have installed Testkube, run a sample test and integrated that within your pipeline.
Our recommended next step is to write run one of your own tests within Testkube.

> To learn how to do this we recommend you to either:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To learn how to do this we recommend you either:
```
